h1. Acronyms

- AOP := Aspect Oriented Programming
- DAO := Data Access Object
- EAR := Enterprise Archive, or EAR, is a file format used by Java EE for packaging one or more modules into a single archive so that the deployment of the various modules onto an application server happens simultaneously and coherently.
- EJB := Enterprise JavaBeans is a managed, server-side component architecture for modular construction of enterprise applications.
- JAR := Java ARchive aggregates many files into one. Software developers generally use .jar files to distribute Java applications or libraries, in the form of classes and associated metadata  and resources (text, images, etc.) JAR files build on the ZIP file format.
- ORM := Object-relational mapping in computer software is a programming technique for converting data between incompatible type systems in relational databases and object-oriented programming languages. This creates, in effect, a "virtual object database" that can be used from within the programming language. 
- JAXB := Java Architecture for XML Binding allows Java developers to map Java classes to XML representations.
- JWS := Java Web Services
- WAR := Web application ARchive is a JAR file used to distribute a collection of JavaServer Pages, servlets, Java classes, XML files, tag libraries and static Web pages hat together constitute a Web application.
- WSDL := The Web Services Description Language is an XML-based language that provides a model for describing Web services. The meaning of the acronym has changed from version 1.1 where the D stood for Definition.