h1. localhost

h2. Motivation

I'm somewhat of a nerd - whatever that means for you. For me it means being interested in the world beyond what you can grasp directly, in being interested in abstract concepts, rather than political queries, interested in problems, rather than solutions, loving physics, mathematics and computer science. I don't leave my flat without my notebook, loving the fact the I can whip it out almost everywhere and start to create something, whether it being writing some text, or writing some code. 

D체sseldorf in Germany is my home of choice. I love the city and to be honest, I love the city more than its people (at least most of them). The city offers enough culture for my inspirational needs.

But sometimes I miss some public places where I can work, alone or with others. The only public place you can go to work is the library. After that you can only visit some private coffee shops, where you must, or at the least feel obliged to consume too much coffee or sugary drinks. You can sit there but these places almost always tend to offer a relaxed, chattery atmosphere - which is totally fine. Sometimes tough I wish there was a place I can go to in the morning, leave in the evening, being proud of what I have done and not be coming home from work, but instead of a brainstorm sessions with friends trying to jumpstart a project, discussing existing side projects (which every nerd has). The idea itself sharing an office space with other people isn't new, it's called co-working. I always liked the idea - always since a little shop near my old place was transformed into a public ofice space where you could rent a small cubicle. 

Maybe this need for a public place, and not a home office or "work place" stems from the feeling that I feel to relaxed at home, maybe even sometimes to distracted to work on some stuff. Maybe it's also the _rheinl채ndische Kultur_ - we tend to go outside. I don't know.

When a friend of mine introduced me to the Unperfekthaus in Essen, I was overjoyed with the concept. I wish something similar exists in D체sseldorf, but with more focus on technology and science than art. Co-working hasn't have to be separate from culture or coffee houses. It can co-exist, if executed correctly.

There is little sense in complaining though. And even if I don't have the resources to build something like that myself now, I can plan, even if only for myself.

h2. Idea

* A flat entrance fee. Basic needs should be covered (non alcoholic drinks, not to special drinks)
* Guest can stay the whole day
* Free Wifi
* Encourage Co-Working by offering different working areas
* Rooms to work to rent to guarantee privacy
* Rent meeting rooms
* enable micro communities

h2. Problems

There is a problem even with the basic premise.

We want to attract people to come and work. That normally means that they don't consume much and therefore don't spend much. The average consumer, we target the nerd, will bring his laptop, order a mocha for a few Euros and stay a few hours. 

That leads me to the following structure:
* normal coffee shop in the front, for eating, drinking and chatting to attract the normal crowd
* renting rooms should be the meat
* 30/70 model when micro communities sell something

h2. Space

For such an endeavor you need space, much space. If you want to offer office space, different areas, such as a place to eat, to chat, to relax you just need a lot of space. 

h2. Menu

Following the principal idea, basic needs should be covered by a small entrance fee or depend on an honorary system. People should be able to get water, coffee and soda for themselves. Small snacks should be available, with some sort box next to them, where people could put the amount of money the seem fit.  

h3. Food

* Cookies
* Snacks

h3. Drinks

* no hard liquor
* milk
* coffeine based drinks
** Redbull
** Jolt

h2. Activities

* Co-working
* Key Signing Parties
* Anime nights
* Science fiction nights
* Vortr채ge
* Git Server
* Gaming area (XBox, PS3, Wii)
** Rockband parties
* Role playing games
* Brettspiele
* Comics
* LAN Parties

h2. Finances

Financing a start up, their own company or even a coffee shop is always a financial risk. Normally you don't have the funds to start something like that without resorting to external sources. Acquiring financing for such a coffe shop can't be an easy task. 

* research the location
** how much to lease, buy
** prices in the area, companies in the area
* cost of outfitting
** furnishings
** fixtures
** equipment
* marketing, advertising strategies
* licenses for alcohol

* you will need to invest your own money
* have a clean credit history

h3. Business plan

* reality check
* made to convince the lender of financial success

h3. Sample for small coffee house

The golden ratio for a local business 
* a maximum of 25% for rent
* 25% for payroll
* 35% for product costs
* 15% as profit

A place that seats 25 will have to employ at least two people for every shift: someone to work the front and someone for the kitchen (assuming you find a guy who will both uncomplainingly wash dishes and reliably whip up pretty crepes; if you've found that guy, you're already in better shape than most NYC restaurateurs. You're also, most likely, already in trouble with immigration services). Budgeting $15 for the payroll for every hour your charming cafe is open (let's say 10 hours a day) relieves you of $4,500 a month. That gives you another $4,500 a month for rent and $6,300 to stock up on product. It also means that to come up with the total needed $18K of revenue per month, you will need to sell that product at an average of a 300 percent markup.

h2. Ideas

* Collaborations with other coffee shops and art houses, companies, schools
* Co-working is community office space for self-employed developers and writers.