h1. Maven

h2. Installation

bc. $ sudo port install maven2

h2. Setup

The settings can be found under @~/.m2/settings.xml@

h3. Proxy

bc.. <settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
  xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                      http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd"> 
  ...
  <proxies>
   <proxy>
      <active>true</active>
      <protocol>http</protocol>
      <host>proxy.acme.com</host>
      <port>3128</port>
      <username></username>
      <password></password>
      <nonProxyHosts>www.google.com|*.somewhere.com</nonProxyHosts>
    </proxy>
  </proxies>
  ...
</settings>

h3. Move the local repository

As I use multiple user on my machine for different clients (it helps keep my mind sane) and don't want to have a repository for each user I decided to move it to a shared location on my hard drive. Normally it is found in @~/.m2/repository@

To change the path to the repository open your settings under @~/.m2/settings.xml@ and add/change the following

bc.. <settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
  xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                      http://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">
  ...
	<localRepository>/path/to/shared/repository</localRepository>
  ...
</settings>

h2. Usage

h3. Create a new Maven Project

Create a basic layout and pom.xml file

bc. $ mvn archetype:create -DgroupId=com.acme -DartifactId=project

You get a pom file like this:

bc. <?xml version="1.0"?>
	<project xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 http://maven.apache.org/maven-v4_0_0.xsd">
	<modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
	<groupId>com.acme</groupId>
	<artifactId>project</artifactId>
	<packaging>jar</packaging>
	<version>1.0-SNAPSHOT</version>
	<name>project</name>
	<url>http://maven.apache.org</url>
	<dependencies>
		<dependency>
			<groupId>junit</groupId>
			<artifactId>junit</artifactId>
			<version>3.8.1</version>
			<scope>test</scope>
		</dependency>
	</dependencies>
</project>
	
Where

* @groupId@ is the unique identifier of your organization
* @artifactId@ is the name of your project
* @version@ is the version number
* @packaging@ defaults to jar
* @name@ is a descriptive name

h3(#mavenize). Mavenize a 3-rd party library

"Mavenizer":http://mavenizer.sourceforge.net/ is a tool that can help you mavenize 3rd party libraries

This is a *very* simple example as the library doesn't have any external dependencies. Beware that the following code copies the mavenized project to your local maven repository.

bc. $ mkdir mavenize
$ cd mavenize
$ wget http://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/mavenizer/Mavenizer%20CLI/1.0.0-alpha-1/mavenizer-cli-1.0.0-alpha-1-jar-with-dependencies.jar
$ wget http://downloads.sourceforge.net/project/java-base64/Java%20Base64/1.3.1/javabase64-1.3.1.zip
$ unzip javabase64-1.3.1.zip
$ rm javabase64-1.3.1.zip
$ mv javabase64-1.3.1/javabase64-1.3.1.jar .
$ rm -r javabase64-1.3.1
$ java -jar mavenizer-cli-1.0.0-alpha-1-jar-with-dependencies.jar analyse -workdir javabase64-mavenize javabase64-1.3.1.jar
$ java -jar mavenizer-cli-1.0.0-alpha-1-jar-with-dependencies.jar generate -workdir javabase64
$ cp -r javabase64/repository/ ~~/.m2/repository/

Normally you will have more complex cases. Try to track down which libraries are used and put them next to library to be mavenized. Best to put all files in a directory and call mavenizer on that directory. The analyzer will generate a @mavenizer.xml@ file, which you have to go trough yourself. Hopefully you can replace the dependency with known artifacts.

h4. A simple (read lazy but quick) way

The "Mavenize":#mavenize way is the better (more complete/correct) choice but sometimes you can't be bothered with dependency hell. Just use the following command and change according to your needs:

bc. $ mvn install:install-file -Dfile=library.jar -DgroupId=com.company -DartifactId=libraryname -Dversion=1.2.3 -Dpackaging=jar

h2. M2Eclipse

h3. Manage Repository index 

The view to add more indexes can be found under

@Window > Show View > Other ... > Maven > Maven Repositories@   

Open the context menu (right click) choose @Add Index@. There you can add the Repository URL and the display name. 

|_. Name|_. Repository URL|_.  Repository ID |
|Maven Central | "http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/":http://repo1.maven.org/maven2/|central|
|Codehaus | "http://repository.codehaus.org":http://repository.codehaus.org|Codehaus|
|Java.net | "http://download.java.net/maven/2/":http://download.java.net/maven/2/ | java.net2|

The indexing process might take a while.

h2. FAQ/Problems

h3. MacRoman encoding creeping into build process

Maven uses the platform encoding when building by default. It will produces warnings like that

bc.	[WARNING] Using platform encoding (MacRoman actually) to copy↩
	filtered resources, i.e. build is platform dependent!

Add a @project.build.sourceEncoding@ element and a @project.reporting.outputEncoding@ to your @pom.xml@.

bc.. <project
  xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0"
  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
  xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/POM/4.0.0 ↩
http://maven.apache.org/maven-v4_0_0.xsd">

	<modelVersion>4.0.0</modelVersion>
	<groupId>com.example</groupId>
	<artifactId>mywebapp</artifactId>
	<packaging>war</packaging>
	<version>1.21</version>
	<name>mywebapp</name>

<!-- snip -->
	<properties>
    	<project.build.sourceEncoding>UTF-8</project.build.sourceEncoding>
    	<project.reporting.outputEncoding>UTF-8</project.reporting.outputEncoding>
	</properties>
<!-- snip -->
</project>

h3. Change source level of maven project

Add the following snippet to your @pom.xml@

bc. <build>
	<plugins>
		<plugin>
			<groupId>org.apache.maven.plugins</groupId>
			<artifactId>maven-compiler-plugin</artifactId>
			<configuration>
				<source>1.5</source>
				<target>1.5</target>
			</configuration>
		</plugin>
	</plugins>
</build>

ChangeΩthe @source@ and @target@ tags according to your needs