'''Here are some notes about running navit under Apple Mac OSX.'''

=What you will need=

You need Xcode Tools and MacPorts in order to install navit.

MacPorts developers suggest to install Xcode Tools from http://developer.apple.com/tools/xcode/ and not from the Mac OSX install disk.

Make sure you don't have fink installed on your system, it can confuse MacPorts package building and installation.

==GTK Gui==
You should only need gtk2 and glib2 via macPorts

==SDL Gui==
Untested yet.

=Installation instruction=
Download Xcode Tools from http://developer.apple.com/tools/xcode/ and install it with X11 SDK

Download and Install MacPorts from http://www.macports.org/, or update your version
  sudo port -d selfupdate

Open up a terminal

make sure your PATH variables has /opt/local/bin and /opt/local/sbin in it:
  echo $PATH 


Install automake, wget, libtool, gpsd (if you want gps support), gtk2 and glib2 (for gkt GUI) with
  sudo port install automake wget gpsd gtk2 glib2 libtool

Download navit or checkout it from SVN
   svn co https://navit.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/navit/trunk/navit navit

You may also need a header file to handle endian issues (for PPC only)
 wget https://navit.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/navit/tags/R0_1_0/navit/projs/CodeBlocks/Win32Extra/byteswap.h

Edit configure.in and add
  -I/opt/local/include -L/opt/local/lib
to the CFLAGS variable and add
  -I/opt/local/include/gtk-2.0 -L/opt/local/lib
to the GTK2_CFLAGS variable; oh wait, there is no GTK2_CFLAGS variable in this file. 

Change
  LIBS="$LIBS -lm -rdynamic"
by
  LIBS="$LIBS -lm"
(on some systems, the "-rdynamic" option ensures that the executable has it's global symbols put into the symbol table. This is already the default
behavior on darwin.)

Edit autogen.sh and change
 libtool
to
 glibtool

If you want to install navit along the MacPorts packages, you need to use the /opt/local directory as prefix:
  ./autogen.sh && ./configure --prefix=/opt/local

--[[User:Dctucker|Dctucker]] 03:29, 10 July 2009 (UTC)
I had good results getting everything to compile after installing a bunch of ports using the following configure line:
  ./configure --prefix=/opt/local --enable-graphics-gd --enable-svg2png-scaling --with-svg2png-use-rsvg-convert --enable-graphics-qt-qpainter

type
  make
to build NavIt, and
  sudo make install
to install it.

Then, you may edit and adapt your navit.xml file (the jokers of the original file are not supported)

--[[User:Dctucker|Dctucker]] 06:49, 12 July 2009 (UTC)I didn't have to do this on Leopard.

You may need to replace the <plugins> section of your navit.xml file by
  <plugins>		
  	<plugin path="/opt/local/lib/navit/binding/libbinding_python.dylib"/>
  	<plugin path="/opt/local/lib/navit/data/libdata_binfile.dylib"/>
  	<plugin path="/opt/local/lib/navit/data/libdata_mg.dylib"/>
  	<plugin path="/opt/local/lib/navit/data/libdata_poi_geodownload.dylib"/>
  	<plugin path="/opt/local/lib/navit/data/libdata_textfile.dylib"/>
  	<plugin path="/opt/local/lib/navit/graphics/libgraphics_gtk_drawing_area.dylib" />
  	<plugin path="/opt/local/lib/navit/graphics/libgraphics_null.dylib" active="no"/>
  	<plugin path="/opt/local/lib/navit/gui/libgui_gtk.dylib" />
  	<plugin path="/opt/local/lib/navit/osd/libosd_core.dylib" />
  	<plugin path="/opt/local/lib/navit/speech/libspeech_cmdline.dylib" />
  	<plugin path="/opt/local/lib/navit/vehicle/libvehicle_demo.dylib" />
  	<plugin path="/opt/local/lib/navit/vehicle/libvehicle_file.dylib" />
  </plugins>
and if you want to use the sample maps installed, you may need to change the maps' path
 <mapset enabled="yes">
  	<map type="binfile" enabled="yes" data="/opt/local/share/navit/maps/osm_bbox_11.3,47.9,11.7,48.2.bin"/>
  </mapset>

=Speech=
If you want (spoken) directions, get espeak from http://espeak.sourceforge.net, install as advised and use the following snippet in your navit.xml:

           <speech type="cmdline" data="speak -vde+f4 '%s'"/>

This will tell speak to use a female (f) german (de) voice.   

=Something went wrong?=

Please see [[Talk:Navit on MacOS]].

plugins in navit.xml

  convert: Delegate failed `"wmf2eps" -o "%o" "%i"'.
  convert: unable to open image `/var/tmp/magick-TxvFOsaM': No such file or directory.
  convert: unable to open file `/var/tmp/magick-TxvFOsaM': No such file or directory.
  convert: missing an image filename `country_DM_32_32.png'.
  SRCDIR=. ./navit_svg2png "/usr/local/bin/convert" "country_DO_32_32.png"
  sh: wmf2eps: command not found
  convert: Delegate failed `"wmf2eps" -o "%o" "%i"'.
  convert: unable to open image `/var/tmp/magick-HWAT6nkQ': No such file or directory.
  convert: unable to open file `/var/tmp/magick-HWAT6nkQ': No such file or directory.

config parameter

navit:file_wordexp_new:wordexp('/Users/Oliver/.navit/bookmark.txt') returned 6
Xlib:  extension "RANDR" missing on display "/tmp/launch-V7ycil/:0".