h1. Quotes

bq[de].: "The best presents don't come in boxes."

Hobbes (Calvin & Hobbes, Bill Watterson)

bq[de]. "Wer weiß, spricht nicht, wer spricht, weiß nicht."

Lao Tse

bq[en]. "No one can make you feel inferior without your consent."

Eleanor Roosevelt

bq[en]. "Everyone knows how to talk, and no one knows what to say."

Jess Crichton (Character from Nick Hornby)

bq[en]. "Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover."

Mark Twain

bq[de]. "Ich hab schon mit 8 im Kindergarten gerappt!"

Ferris MC

bq[de]. "Es ist wichtig kontinuierlich seine Freshness upzudaten" 

Eko Fresh

bq[de]. "Da draussen gibt es..naja so viel Schwerkraft!"

Monk

bq[de]. "Tadle deinen Freund unter vier Augen und lobe ihn vor allen." 

Leonardo da Vinci

bq[de]. "Ich bin frei von allen Vorurteilen. Ich hasse alle gleich."

William Claude Dukenfield aka W.C. Fields (1880-1946)

bq[en]. "Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing more to add, but when there is nothing left to take away."

Antoine de Saint-Exupéry

bq[en]. "Have nothing in your houses that you do not know to be useful or believe to be beautiful."

William Morris

bq[en]. "If you can’t explain it simply, you don’t understand it well enough."

Albert Einstein

bq[en]. "Don't cry because it's over. Smile because it happened."

Dr. Seuss

bq[en]. "You only need one good reason to commit to an idea, not four hundred. But if you have four hundred reasons to say yes and one reason to say no, the answer is probably no."

Twyla Tharp, The Creative Habit

bq[en]. Time is really the only capital any human being has, and the one thing he can’t afford to waste.

Thomas Edison

bq[de]. Lass mich ich kann das!.....Oh, Kaputt.

Unbekannt

bq[en]. Where shall the world be found, where will the word resound? Not here, there is not enough silence.

T. S. Eliot

bq[en]. When you don't create things, you become defined by your tastes rather than ability. Your tastes only narrow & exclude people. So create.

@_why

bq[en]. I have been impressed with the urgency of doing. Knowing is not enough; we must apply. Being willing is not enough; we must do.

Leonardo da Vinci

bq[en]. There are basically two types of people. People who accomplish things, and people who claim to have accomplished things. The first group is less crowded.

Mark Twain

bq[en]. He who does not understand your silence will probably not understand your words.

Elbert Hubbard

bq[en]. Sometimes I’ve believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast.

Lewis Carroll

bq[en]. If you’re not living on the edge, you’re taking up too much space.

Unknown

bq[en]. Curse your sudden but inevitable betrayal.

Wash (as Stegosaurus; Character from Serenity)

bq[en]. Those who know, do not speak. Those who speak, do not know.

Lao Tzu

bq[de]. Um einen Schmetterling lieben zu können, müssen wir auch ein paar Raupen mögen.

Antoine de Saint-Exupéry

bq[en]. Cats have nine lives. Which makes them ideal for experimentation.

Jimmy Carr