h1. Tea

h2. Green Tea

h3. Mao Jian

China

little sweet, hint of grass

h3. Sencha

Japan

Light, Grassy

h3. Hojicha

Japan

Roasted, Wooden

h2. Tableware

h2. Gai Wan



h2. Preperation

h3. Mom's Water Boiler 

- 90째 := 2m 30s
- 80째 := 7m 30s
- 70째 := 15m 15s

h2. Recipes

h3. Moroccan

Taken from "essen & trinken":http://www.essen-und-trinken.de/rezept/119704/marokkanischer-minztee.html

h4. Ingredients

* 1 l Water
* 1 l Mint leaves (Moroccan mint!)
* 3 Tbs Green tea (China Gunpowder)
* 3 Tbs Sugar
* 1 Dash Saffron
* 1 Dash Anis

h4. Cooking

#. First infusion of the green tea. Brew for 1-2 minutes, drink or pour away, keep leaves in teapot, as they are needed fpr the second infusion.
#. Clean mint leaves. Add directly into teapot. Add saffron, anise and sugar. Brew with 70-80째C hot water..
#. Brew for 5-8 minutes. Swing the teapot from time to time.

Serve hot, add sugar if needed.

h4. Notes

The tase of the tea highly depends on the mint leaves. Only "Mentha Spicata var crispa 'Marokko'" offers the original moroccan mint tea aroma. Other blends offer different flavors

* Mentha Spicata var crispa 'Nane' (consumed with black tea in Turkey and Tunesia - distinct, aromatic) 
* Mentha suaveolens (apple mint - light, fruity) 
* Mentha species 'Hillary's Sweet Lemon' (light, sweet, bloomy)

* Soft and jung light green leaves fresh sprouts taste sweet, full-bodied aromatic, light in taste.
* Hard and old dark green leaves taste more spicy, less sweet. More distinct taste.

It is better to clean the leaves with hot water before the brewing, it infuses better, and tastes less earthy, leaving you with golden yellow color instead of greenisch color.

Even better than the hot washing is a steam bath. Just steam it for 1-2 minutes. The water will be bleary and of a greenish color, containing all the unwanted substances. Just pour it away.