h1. Textmate

h2. Appearance

h3. Themes for Webpreview

You might have to create the directory containing the user themes first.

bc. $ mkdir ~/Library/Application\ Support/TextMate/Themes/WebPreview

Create a subdirectory for each theme you intend to create. Then let your creative juices flow and create your own stylesheets. Just remember to call the stylesheet

bc. style.css

All selectors should be prefixed with @.<themename>@ to avoid affecting other themes.

h2. Useful Plugins/Bundles

If you put a new bundle into the @Bundles@ directory you might want and Textmate is running and don't want to close it, you can reload your bundles with

bc. $ osascript -e 'tell app "TextMate" to reload bundles'

h3. XMLMate

bq. The XMLMate Plug-In adds an XML parsing palette to the popular TextMate text editor for Mac OS X. While editing an XML (or XHTML) document in TextMate, you can open the XMLMate palette to conveniently check your document for well-formedness or validity against a DTD, W3C XML Schema, RELAX NG schema, or Schematron schema.

Get it "here"://www.ditchnet.org/xmlmate/.

h3. Git.tmbundle

bc. $ mkdir -p ~/Library/Application\ Support/TextMate/Bundles
$ cd ~/Library/Application\ Support/TextMate/Bundles
$ git clone git://github.com/timcharper/git-tmbundle.git Git.tmbundle

* In the TextMate preferences, advanced tab, shell variables, set the TM_GIT variable to point to your installation of git (ie <code>/usr/local/bin/git</code>)
* Many shortcuts are available from the Git-shortcut (Ctrl-Shift-G).  Subversion commands are Command-Option-g.  Less frequent commands are accessed via the menu.
* Update your bundle by running the "Update Git Bundle" command.